README.md, before:

# ijkplayer

 Platform | Build Status
 -------- | ------------
 Android | [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Bilibili/ci-ijk-ffmpeg-android.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Bilibili/ci-ijk-ffmpeg-android)
 iOS | [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Bilibili/ci-ijk-ffmpeg-ios.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Bilibili/ci-ijk-ffmpeg-ios)

Video player based on [ffplay](http://ffmpeg.org)

### Download

- Android:
 - Gradle
```
# required
allprojects {
    repositories {
        jcenter()
    }
}

dependencies {
    # required, enough for most devices.
    compile 'tv.danmaku.ijk.media:ijkplayer-java:0.8.8'
    compile 'tv.danmaku.ijk.media:ijkplayer-armv7a:0.8.8'

    # Other ABIs: optional
    compile 'tv.danmaku.ijk.media:ijkplayer-armv5:0.8.8'
    compile 'tv.danmaku.ijk.media:ijkplayer-arm64:0.8.8'
    compile 'tv.danmaku.ijk.media:ijkplayer-x86:0.8.8'
    compile 'tv.danmaku.ijk.media:ijkplayer-x86_64:0.8.8'

    # ExoPlayer as IMediaPlayer: optional, experimental
    compile 'tv.danmaku.ijk.media:ijkplayer-exo:0.8.8'
}
```
- iOS
 - in coming...

### My Build Environment
- Common
 - Mac OS X 10.11.5
- Android
 - [NDK r10e](http://developer.android.com/tools/sdk/ndk/index.html)
 - Android Studio 2.1.3
 - Gradle 2.14.1
- iOS
 - Xcode 7.3 (7D175)
- [HomeBrew](http://brew.sh)
 - ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
 - brew install git

### Latest Changes
- [NEWS.md](NEWS.md)

### Features
- Common
 - remove rarely used ffmpeg components to reduce binary size [config/module-lite.sh](config/module-lite.sh)
 - workaround for some buggy online video.
- Android
 - platform: API 9~23
 - cpu: ARMv7a, ARM64v8a, x86 (ARMv5 is not tested on real devices)
 - api: [MediaPlayer-like](android/ijkplayer/ijkplayer-java/src/main/java/tv/danmaku/ijk/media/player/IMediaPlayer.java)
 - video-output: NativeWindow, OpenGL ES 2.0
 - audio-output: AudioTrack, OpenSL ES
 - hw-decoder: MediaCodec (API 16+, Android 4.1+)
 - alternative-backend: android.media.MediaPlayer, ExoPlayer
- iOS
 - platform: iOS 7.0~10.2.x
 - cpu: armv7, arm64, i386, x86_64, (armv7s is obselete)
 - api: [MediaPlayer.framework-like](ios/IJKMediaPlayer/IJKMediaPlayer/IJKMediaPlayback.h)
 - video-output: OpenGL ES 2.0
 - audio-output: AudioQueue, AudioUnit
 - hw-decoder: VideoToolbox (iOS 8+)
 - alternative-backend: AVFoundation.Framework.AVPlayer, MediaPlayer.Framework.MPMoviePlayerControlelr (obselete since iOS 8)

### NOT-ON-PLAN
- obsolete platforms (Android: API-8 and below; iOS: pre-6.0)
- obsolete cpu: ARMv5, ARMv6, MIPS (I don't even have these types of devices…)
- native subtitle render
- avfilter support

### Before Build
```
# install homebrew, git, yasm
ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
brew install git
brew install yasm

# add these lines to your ~/.bash_profile or ~/.profile
# export ANDROID_SDK=<your sdk path>
# export ANDROID_NDK=<your ndk path>

# on Cygwin (unmaintained)
# install git, make, yasm
```

- If you prefer more codec/format
```
cd config
rm module.sh
ln -s module-default.sh module.sh
cd android/contrib
# cd ios
sh compile-ffmpeg.sh clean
```

- If you prefer less codec/format for smaller binary size (include hevc function)
```
cd config
rm module.sh
ln -s module-lite-hevc.sh module.sh
cd android/contrib
# cd ios
sh compile-ffmpeg.sh clean
```

- If you prefer less codec/format for smaller binary size (by default)
```
cd config
rm module.sh
ln -s module-lite.sh module.sh
cd android/contrib
# cd ios
sh compile-ffmpeg.sh clean
```

- For Ubuntu/Debian users.
```
# choose [No] to use bash
sudo dpkg-reconfigure dash
```

- If you'd like to share your config, pull request is welcome.

### Build Android
```
git clone https://github.com/Bilibili/ijkplayer.git ijkplayer-android
cd ijkplayer-android
git checkout -B latest k0.8.8

./init-android.sh

cd android/contrib
./compile-ffmpeg.sh clean
./compile-ffmpeg.sh all

cd ..
./compile-ijk.sh all

# Android Studio:
#     Open an existing Android Studio project
#     Select android/ijkplayer/ and import
#
#     define ext block in your root build.gradle
#     ext {
#       compileSdkVersion = 23       // depending on your sdk version
#       buildToolsVersion = "23.0.0" // depending on your build tools version
#
#       targetSdkVersion = 23        // depending on your sdk version
#     }
#
# If you want to enable debugging ijkplayer(native modules) on Android Studio 2.2+: (experimental)
#     sh android/patch-debugging-with-lldb.sh armv7a
#     Install Android Studio 2.2(+)
#     Preference -> Android SDK -> SDK Tools
#     Select (LLDB, NDK, Android SDK Build-tools,Cmake) and install
#     Open an existing Android Studio project
#     Select android/ijkplayer
#     Sync Project with Gradle Files
#     Run -> Edit Configurations -> Debugger -> Symbol Directories
#     Add "ijkplayer-armv7a/.externalNativeBuild/ndkBuild/release/obj/local/armeabi-v7a" to Symbol Directories
#     Run -> Debug 'ijkplayer-example'
#     if you want to reverse patches:
#     sh patch-debugging-with-lldb.sh reverse armv7a
#
# Eclipse: (obselete)
#     File -> New -> Project -> Android Project from Existing Code
#     Select android/ and import all project
#     Import appcompat-v7
#     Import preference-v7
#
# Gradle
#     cd ijkplayer
#     gradle

```


### Build iOS
```
git clone https://github.com/Bilibili/ijkplayer.git ijkplayer-ios
cd ijkplayer-ios
git checkout -B latest k0.8.8

./init-ios.sh

cd ios
./compile-ffmpeg.sh clean
./compile-ffmpeg.sh all

# Demo
#     open ios/IJKMediaDemo/IJKMediaDemo.xcodeproj with Xcode
# 
# Import into Your own Application
#     Select your project in Xcode.
#     File -> Add Files to ... -> Select ios/IJKMediaPlayer/IJKMediaPlayer.xcodeproj
#     Select your Application's target.
#     Build Phases -> Target Dependencies -> Select IJKMediaFramework
#     Build Phases -> Link Binary with Libraries -> Add:
#         IJKMediaFramework.framework
#
#         AudioToolbox.framework
#         AVFoundation.framework
#         CoreGraphics.framework
#         CoreMedia.framework
#         CoreVideo.framework
#         libbz2.tbd
#         libz.tbd
#         MediaPlayer.framework
#         MobileCoreServices.framework
#         OpenGLES.framework
#         QuartzCore.framework
#         UIKit.framework
#         VideoToolbox.framework
#
#         ... (Maybe something else, if you get any link error)
# 
```


### Support (支持) ###
- Please do not send e-mail to me. Public technical discussion on github is preferred.
- 请尽量在 github 上公开讨论[技术问题](https://github.com/bilibili/ijkplayer/issues)，不要以邮件方式私下询问，恕不一一回复。


### License

```
Copyright (c) 2017 Bilibili
Licensed under LGPLv2.1 or later
```

ijkplayer required features are based on or derives from projects below:
- LGPL
  - [FFmpeg](http://git.videolan.org/?p=ffmpeg.git)
  - [libVLC](http://git.videolan.org/?p=vlc.git)
  - [kxmovie](https://github.com/kolyvan/kxmovie)
  - [soundtouch](http://www.surina.net/soundtouch/sourcecode.html)
- zlib license
  - [SDL](http://www.libsdl.org)
- BSD-style license
  - [libyuv](https://code.google.com/p/libyuv/)
- ISC license
  - [libyuv/source/x86inc.asm](https://code.google.com/p/libyuv/source/browse/trunk/source/x86inc.asm)

android/ijkplayer-exo is based on or derives from projects below:
- Apache License 2.0
  - [ExoPlayer](https://github.com/google/ExoPlayer)

android/example is based on or derives from projects below:
- GPL
  - [android-ndk-profiler](https://github.com/richq/android-ndk-profiler) (not included by default)

ios/IJKMediaDemo is based on or derives from projects below:
- Unknown license
  - [iOS7-BarcodeScanner](https://github.com/jpwiddy/iOS7-BarcodeScanner)

ijkplayer's build scripts are based on or derives from projects below:
- [gas-preprocessor](http://git.libav.org/?p=gas-preprocessor.git)
- [VideoLAN](http://git.videolan.org)
- [yixia/FFmpeg-Android](https://github.com/yixia/FFmpeg-Android)
- [kewlbear/FFmpeg-iOS-build-script](https://github.com/kewlbear/FFmpeg-iOS-build-script) 

### Commercial Use
ijkplayer is licensed under LGPLv2.1 or later, so itself is free for commercial use under LGPLv2.1 or later

But ijkplayer is also based on other different projects under various licenses, which I have no idea whether they are compatible to each other or to your product.

[IANAL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IANAL), you should always ask your lawyer for these stuffs before use it in your product.

Commit message:

- Enable RTSP - Build for small size framework - Resolve delay and unknown error - Resolve issue for call UIApplication methods from background thread - Remove support for arm7 and arm7s

README.md, after:

# ijkplayer

For Newbie:

iOS: 
General steps to build framework
https://www.jianshu.com/p/65fb80dff4d6

Resolve calling `applicationState` on main thread
https://www.dazhuanlan.com/2019/10/16/5da6084dc153a/?__cf_chl_jschl_tk__=002b50f392fcbefc4024ddb625b2bb595705cf3c-1599713688-0-AXfH98JJ91WxB8J9JtS0rWilbTzAk1ird7NKXZaStfV4KGLCBv6o5TO2elKZph5Dd9VaXZNMB1MQa1bryS1CsjYTbrgYwugappr0TE4__-HxiUFpW6To9zIWntw2hHLZ9YTaWmTc30TXxsgPpN_wHELtyMFqtv7QGmz8V0ITyJbNEmd-1LWxxNwmWYM7z_29uzz_3fmyrpJGvWiR5j7YjE1n4zMwnPd7CuY78-Afo_rJ_tNuSK_t7IvGsRR1xMlFj6rNNmO9YKQa1x99LsuYnsCmlAJT8hdmTwDYIP-x-o_1Bf_7NPb-UJ0ET19og3vqfg

Enable RTSP(disable by default)
https://blog.csdn.net/qq372848728/article/details/62170288?utm_medium=distribute.pc_relevant_download.none-task-blog-baidujs-1.nonecase&depth_1-utm_source=distribute.pc_relevant_download.none-task-blog-baidujs-1.nonecase

 Platform | Build Status
 -------- | ------------
 Android | [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Bilibili/ci-ijk-ffmpeg-android.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Bilibili/ci-ijk-ffmpeg-android)
 iOS | [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Bilibili/ci-ijk-ffmpeg-ios.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Bilibili/ci-ijk-ffmpeg-ios)

Video player based on [ffplay](http://ffmpeg.org)

### Download

- Android:
 - Gradle
```
# required
allprojects {
    repositories {
        jcenter()
    }
}

dependencies {
    # required, enough for most devices.
    compile 'tv.danmaku.ijk.media:ijkplayer-java:0.8.8'
    compile 'tv.danmaku.ijk.media:ijkplayer-armv7a:0.8.8'

    # Other ABIs: optional
    compile 'tv.danmaku.ijk.media:ijkplayer-armv5:0.8.8'
    compile 'tv.danmaku.ijk.media:ijkplayer-arm64:0.8.8'
    compile 'tv.danmaku.ijk.media:ijkplayer-x86:0.8.8'
    compile 'tv.danmaku.ijk.media:ijkplayer-x86_64:0.8.8'

    # ExoPlayer as IMediaPlayer: optional, experimental
    compile 'tv.danmaku.ijk.media:ijkplayer-exo:0.8.8'
}
```
- iOS
 - in coming...

### My Build Environment
- Common
 - Mac OS X 10.11.5
- Android
 - [NDK r10e](http://developer.android.com/tools/sdk/ndk/index.html)
 - Android Studio 2.1.3
 - Gradle 2.14.1
- iOS
 - Xcode 7.3 (7D175)
- [HomeBrew](http://brew.sh)
 - ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
 - brew install git

### Latest Changes
- [NEWS.md](NEWS.md)

### Features
- Common
 - remove rarely used ffmpeg components to reduce binary size [config/module-lite.sh](config/module-lite.sh)
 - workaround for some buggy online video.
- Android
 - platform: API 9~23
 - cpu: ARMv7a, ARM64v8a, x86 (ARMv5 is not tested on real devices)
 - api: [MediaPlayer-like](android/ijkplayer/ijkplayer-java/src/main/java/tv/danmaku/ijk/media/player/IMediaPlayer.java)
 - video-output: NativeWindow, OpenGL ES 2.0
 - audio-output: AudioTrack, OpenSL ES
 - hw-decoder: MediaCodec (API 16+, Android 4.1+)
 - alternative-backend: android.media.MediaPlayer, ExoPlayer
- iOS
 - platform: iOS 7.0~10.2.x
 - cpu: armv7, arm64, i386, x86_64, (armv7s is obselete)
 - api: [MediaPlayer.framework-like](ios/IJKMediaPlayer/IJKMediaPlayer/IJKMediaPlayback.h)
 - video-output: OpenGL ES 2.0
 - audio-output: AudioQueue, AudioUnit
 - hw-decoder: VideoToolbox (iOS 8+)
 - alternative-backend: AVFoundation.Framework.AVPlayer, MediaPlayer.Framework.MPMoviePlayerControlelr (obselete since iOS 8)

### NOT-ON-PLAN
- obsolete platforms (Android: API-8 and below; iOS: pre-6.0)
- obsolete cpu: ARMv5, ARMv6, MIPS (I don't even have these types of devices…)
- native subtitle render
- avfilter support

### Before Build
```
# install homebrew, git, yasm
ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
brew install git
brew install yasm

# add these lines to your ~/.bash_profile or ~/.profile
# export ANDROID_SDK=<your sdk path>
# export ANDROID_NDK=<your ndk path>

# on Cygwin (unmaintained)
# install git, make, yasm
```

- If you prefer more codec/format
```
cd config
rm module.sh
ln -s module-default.sh module.sh
cd android/contrib
# cd ios
sh compile-ffmpeg.sh clean
```

- If you prefer less codec/format for smaller binary size (include hevc function)
```
cd config
rm module.sh
ln -s module-lite-hevc.sh module.sh
cd android/contrib
# cd ios
sh compile-ffmpeg.sh clean
```

- If you prefer less codec/format for smaller binary size (by default)
```
cd config
rm module.sh
ln -s module-lite.sh module.sh
cd android/contrib
# cd ios
sh compile-ffmpeg.sh clean
```

- For Ubuntu/Debian users.
```
# choose [No] to use bash
sudo dpkg-reconfigure dash
```

- If you'd like to share your config, pull request is welcome.

### Build Android
```
git clone https://github.com/Bilibili/ijkplayer.git ijkplayer-android
cd ijkplayer-android
git checkout -B latest k0.8.8

./init-android.sh

cd android/contrib
./compile-ffmpeg.sh clean
./compile-ffmpeg.sh all

cd ..
./compile-ijk.sh all

# Android Studio:
#     Open an existing Android Studio project
#     Select android/ijkplayer/ and import
#
#     define ext block in your root build.gradle
#     ext {
#       compileSdkVersion = 23       // depending on your sdk version
#       buildToolsVersion = "23.0.0" // depending on your build tools version
#
#       targetSdkVersion = 23        // depending on your sdk version
#     }
#
# If you want to enable debugging ijkplayer(native modules) on Android Studio 2.2+: (experimental)
#     sh android/patch-debugging-with-lldb.sh armv7a
#     Install Android Studio 2.2(+)
#     Preference -> Android SDK -> SDK Tools
#     Select (LLDB, NDK, Android SDK Build-tools,Cmake) and install
#     Open an existing Android Studio project
#     Select android/ijkplayer
#     Sync Project with Gradle Files
#     Run -> Edit Configurations -> Debugger -> Symbol Directories
#     Add "ijkplayer-armv7a/.externalNativeBuild/ndkBuild/release/obj/local/armeabi-v7a" to Symbol Directories
#     Run -> Debug 'ijkplayer-example'
#     if you want to reverse patches:
#     sh patch-debugging-with-lldb.sh reverse armv7a
#
# Eclipse: (obselete)
#     File -> New -> Project -> Android Project from Existing Code
#     Select android/ and import all project
#     Import appcompat-v7
#     Import preference-v7
#
# Gradle
#     cd ijkplayer
#     gradle

```


### Build iOS
```
git clone https://github.com/Bilibili/ijkplayer.git ijkplayer-ios
cd ijkplayer-ios
git checkout -B latest k0.8.8

./init-ios.sh

cd ios
./compile-ffmpeg.sh clean
./compile-ffmpeg.sh all

# Demo
#     open ios/IJKMediaDemo/IJKMediaDemo.xcodeproj with Xcode
# 
# Import into Your own Application
#     Select your project in Xcode.
#     File -> Add Files to ... -> Select ios/IJKMediaPlayer/IJKMediaPlayer.xcodeproj
#     Select your Application's target.
#     Build Phases -> Target Dependencies -> Select IJKMediaFramework
#     Build Phases -> Link Binary with Libraries -> Add:
#         IJKMediaFramework.framework
#
#         AudioToolbox.framework
#         AVFoundation.framework
#         CoreGraphics.framework
#         CoreMedia.framework
#         CoreVideo.framework
#         libbz2.tbd
#         libz.tbd
#         MediaPlayer.framework
#         MobileCoreServices.framework
#         OpenGLES.framework
#         QuartzCore.framework
#         UIKit.framework
#         VideoToolbox.framework
#
#         ... (Maybe something else, if you get any link error)
# 
```


### Support (支持) ###
- Please do not send e-mail to me. Public technical discussion on github is preferred.
- 请尽量在 github 上公开讨论[技术问题](https://github.com/bilibili/ijkplayer/issues)，不要以邮件方式私下询问，恕不一一回复。


### License

```
Copyright (c) 2017 Bilibili
Licensed under LGPLv2.1 or later
```

ijkplayer required features are based on or derives from projects below:
- LGPL
  - [FFmpeg](http://git.videolan.org/?p=ffmpeg.git)
  - [libVLC](http://git.videolan.org/?p=vlc.git)
  - [kxmovie](https://github.com/kolyvan/kxmovie)
  - [soundtouch](http://www.surina.net/soundtouch/sourcecode.html)
- zlib license
  - [SDL](http://www.libsdl.org)
- BSD-style license
  - [libyuv](https://code.google.com/p/libyuv/)
- ISC license
  - [libyuv/source/x86inc.asm](https://code.google.com/p/libyuv/source/browse/trunk/source/x86inc.asm)

android/ijkplayer-exo is based on or derives from projects below:
- Apache License 2.0
  - [ExoPlayer](https://github.com/google/ExoPlayer)

android/example is based on or derives from projects below:
- GPL
  - [android-ndk-profiler](https://github.com/richq/android-ndk-profiler) (not included by default)

ios/IJKMediaDemo is based on or derives from projects below:
- Unknown license
  - [iOS7-BarcodeScanner](https://github.com/jpwiddy/iOS7-BarcodeScanner)

ijkplayer's build scripts are based on or derives from projects below:
- [gas-preprocessor](http://git.libav.org/?p=gas-preprocessor.git)
- [VideoLAN](http://git.videolan.org)
- [yixia/FFmpeg-Android](https://github.com/yixia/FFmpeg-Android)
- [kewlbear/FFmpeg-iOS-build-script](https://github.com/kewlbear/FFmpeg-iOS-build-script) 

### Commercial Use
ijkplayer is licensed under LGPLv2.1 or later, so itself is free for commercial use under LGPLv2.1 or later

But ijkplayer is also based on other different projects under various licenses, which I have no idea whether they are compatible to each other or to your product.

[IANAL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IANAL), you should always ask your lawyer for these stuffs before use it in your product.
